Hasan Khwaja
Prof. Keith
CS 5001 
9 December 2022
      
      When looking at the design for the project, functions that were used for creating and 
drawing the game board itself were relegated to the prework file in which area for the leaderboard, 
user interface and play space were all made. In addition to this, characteristics of the game board 
such as loading in assets and creating interactable user interface elements were delegated to the 
game board file. This separation of functions seemed to make sense as each file would facilitate 
related tasks in terms of different parts of the project. However, that thought process began to 
change once each specific tile was worked with. 

      Working with the tile placement proved the extent of how complex the idea of working with 
several different puzzles was. At first, the idea of storing each puzzle in a separate file was 
attempted, but then problems occurred in which the previous puzzle would not be fully cleared from 
the play space. In addition to this the logic used for swapping and restricting tile movement 
depended on those functions sharing turtles with their respective puzzles. The solution to this 
problem was to then store all functions for tile placement and movement to be stored in the same file. 
This then led to having most turtles called, be called as global variables as a solution.
 
      Along with the turtles, the number of player clicks, moves, as well as the player named 
all needed to be initialized as global variables as well. This was done to allow for these variables 
to be called such that they can be updated, in real time, onscreen while also keeping track of the 
player’s name to be stored onto the leaderboard from the dialog box. After the work concerning game 
mechanics was completed, the project was left with a large file. This was due to how each turtle 
and set of coordinates needed to be reused for each puzzle along with the ability to track how those 
tiles were moved
